Before our Lord Jesus returned to heaven,
He gave what has been called the Great Commission.
He said,
go there for and make disciples of people of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father
and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
No doubt you have those words in your mind as well.
Jesus was not satisfied that people should just come to know his teachings.
Jesus wanted people to come to love his teachings
so that they would act on them,
so that they would live by them
and so that they would become his true disciples.
Now, why did Jesus want people to become his disciples
and live by his teachings?
Well, it's because of something that we read here
in John chapter 13 and verse 17.
Now, notice what Jesus said here.
If you know these things,
happy you are if you do them.
What's the point?
Jesus was saying that people would find real happiness.
They would find the way of salvation.
They would have a relationship with his precious Heavenly Father
if they would just come to know and do the things that he had taught.
Well, brothers and sisters, in this symposium,
we are going to discuss five different things
that our Bible students need to do,
that they need to progress in
if they are going to become true disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Let's talk about the first.
What is the most basic need that our Bible students have?
Well, it's what Jesus talked about here in Matthew chapter 5.
Let's read it together.
Matthew chapter 5 and verse 3.
Jesus said, happy are those conscious of their notice?
Spiritual need since the kingdom of the heavens belongs to them.
What's the point?
Well, Jesus showed that honest-hearted people have a spiritual need.
They have a need to come to know God
and to have a relationship with him.
If they're really going to be happy.
Therefore, we need to teach our Bible students the very first thing
to see how they can fill that spiritual need
by learning about their Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
As they fill that need,
as they come to have that relationship with God,
that is the way to true happiness.
That means more than just feeding people information.
You know, there's a saying that's very familiar to most of us.
It says, give a man a fish, feed him for a day.
Teach him how to fish, feed him for a lifetime.
What's the point?
If we can teach our Bible students how to feed themselves spiritually,
then they have the way in front of them
to a close relationship with God,
to strong faith and becoming real disciples of Jesus Christ.
Well, now in the following demonstration that you'll see on video,
just notice how our Bible teacher helps her student to be able to do this.
Got it.
I find the answers in all that.
It's more than just the answers.
I'm with it. I'm all about study.
Which do you remember more from our studies?
The answers?
Or the things that touch your heart?
Yeah.
Like, when we talked about immorality,
you knew the answer,
but you didn't seem totally convinced in here.
Let's try and find that answer.
But whoever practices sexual immorality
is sinning against his own body.
Not sure why,
but it made me think of Mum and Dad.
His constant cheating, actually.
Mum's humiliation,
the divorce, all the misery.
I didn't want that.
I began to realize how right Jehovah is.
Because of what need to call meditation,
it's not about clearing your mind to find inner peace.
It's totally different.
It's asking how Jehovah feels about something.
And then what that means for me.
Now, what did you notice in the video?
It's true, Nita showed her Bible student the tools.
But what more did she do?
She also helped her to see that the answers
were not the most important thing.
The most important thing was having the information
come to touch her heart so that she would be moved
to act on what she learned.
Well, how can we help our students
to be able to feed themselves spiritually?
Well, from the very beginning,
once the study has been established,
we want to teach our students how to prepare
each week for the study.
Now, this might be something very new to them.
So we're going to have to go through it
step by step showing them how to prepare.
It might also involve having to help them see
how they can buy out time from their schedule
so that they can do what's necessary to prepare.
And then don't forget to commend them
because this might be very new for many of our students
when they make the effort to prepare,
make sure you give appropriate commendation.
But then what's the next thing?
This is something that we sometimes forget, brothers.
It's the need to teach our students to pray
before every single study session.
Now, why is this important?
Well, once again, we want our students
not just to be thinking in terms of acquiring information
to not take an academic approach to their study,
but instead be always thinking about
how what they're studying connects them
with their Heavenly Father Jehovah
so that they're building up a relationship with him
as Proverbs chapter two says,
if we call out to Jehovah for knowledge,
for wisdom, for understanding,
Jehovah will help us.
He'll help our student to gain that knowledge
that they need to build up a good relationship with him.
And then we want to do practical things.
We want to help our students to become familiar
with the digital tools that we have at our disposal for study.
That means helping them to install
on their phone, on their tablet,
or whatever device they have, JW Library,
showing them how to use Watchtower Online Library
so that they can get the answers that they need
to their questions.
Do you know as a February of this year,
Watchtower Online Library is now available
in more than 700 languages.
So virtually, people all over the world
have access to these wonderful tools.
Don't forget also to show them JW.org
and JW Broadcasting
and show them how they can keep up to date
with these wonderful provisions from Jehovah.
Well now, we've shown them how to prepare for their lesson.
We've shown them how to use the online tools,
but what are the next progressive steps we want to take
so that they can feed themselves spiritually?
Well of course, as Psalm 1 tells us,
if we want to be truly happy and truly well fed spiritually,
we have to read God's law in an undertone day and night.
So we want to teach our students
to get into that good habit of reading God's word
the Bible every day.
And then what about the next step?
We want our students also to be able to prepare
for congregation meetings.
Now, if we've shown them how to use JW Library,
this is really easy, isn't it?
All we have to do is basically hit that meeting tab
and when we do, well, all the information
for our midweek meeting and our weekend meeting
is all there for us.
It will help our students to see
that this program of spiritual feeding
is something they can access
and something they can benefit from.
And what about research questions?
Now, brothers and sisters, if you have a good student,
they're going to be asking lots of questions.
And this is where it's sometimes difficult
for us as teachers.
We would like to be able to just rush in,
open our Bible and answer every question
that our student has.
But what's the better course?
Well, we want to be modest.
And instead of answering all the questions for them,
how much better it is to go back to those tools,
go back to the JW Library,
go back to Watchtower Online Library
and show the student how they can find the answers
to their own Bible questions.
As we do that, we're helping them to build for the future.
Well, brothers, if we can do this,
if we can accomplish this goal
of teaching our students how to feed themselves spiritually,
we are not just feeding them today.
We're not just handing them a fish, as it were.
Instead, we're teaching them how to fish.
We're teaching them how to feed themselves spiritually
for a lifetime.
Even more important, we're fulfilling the commission
that Jesus gave us.
We are making real disciples of Christ Jesus,
who are well fed spiritually.
And as a result, they will not wither up
or they will not blow away,
but instead they will stand firm
as true disciples of Christ Jesus.
Brother Ronald Curson, a helper with the Teaching Committee,
will now consider the next talk in this symposium,
help your Bible students to attend meetings.